PyHRP is a library for hierarchical risk-based portfolios which allows users to create full-investment, long-only portfolios using techniques and strategies as
outlined in "Hierarchical risk parity: Accounting for tail dependencies in multi-asset multi-factor allocations" by Harald Lohre et al. PyHRP uses agglomerative clustering
to group securities in a hierarchical fashion. The dissimilarity metrics by which these securities are grouped together can be either determined by correlations or by lower-tail dependency
coefficients (LTDCs). The documentation for scipy.cluster.hierarchy.linkage outlines various strategies for clustering securities once we have chosen a dissimilarity metric. 
The PyHRP library also allows users to choose from different risk-based allocation strategies. So far, the strategies that are supported by PyHRP are minimum variance (MV), inverse volatility (IV), and equal risk contribution (ERC). All of these hyperparameters are parameters to the HierarchicalRiskPortfolio class in pyhrp.hierarchicalriskportfolios. Beware of how you choose your hyperparameters; for example, the 'ward' method of clustering is not well defined when using LTDCs, and using LTDCs requires the user to use timeseries data that is iid. Since financial timeseries data is almost never iid, some level of preprocessing is required when using LTDCs. Giovanni De Luca and Paola Zuccolotto in "A tail dependence-based dissimilarity measure for financial time series clustering" suggest using the standardized residuals of an AR(1)-GARCH(1,1) model in order to accomplish this.

